feat(condo): INFRA-1009 custom file field (#6281)
open-condo-software/condo: packages/files/README.md

### Files API

This middleware has endpoints for uploading binaries and sharing previously uploaded files between apps/users.

- **Base path**: `/api/files`

> - **Endpoints**:

Reviewer: I think we need to put all the logic relaten to files in one place to recude the complexity. It's hard to maintain if you need to know about some other file-related logic ... Is it possible to collect it in one place?

  - `POST /api/files/upload` — upload one or multiple files
  - `POST /api/files/share` — create a new file record that points to an existing binary (re-share)

### Authentication

- Only authenticated, non-deleted users can call the endpoints. Auth is taken from the app session cookie (same as other Keystone-secured endpoints).
- Unauthorized or deleted users receive `UNAUTHENTICATED/AUTHORIZATION_REQUIRED`.

### Configuration

Set `FILE_UPLOAD_CONFIG` env var to a JSON string:

```json
{

>   "clients": {

Reviewer: Need to add more details about clients, it's not clear

    "some-app-internal-id": { "name": "Some app", "secret": "<HS256-signing-secret>" }
  },
  "quota": {
    "user": 100,
    "ip": 100
  }
}
```

### Uploading files

- Method: `POST`
- Content-Type: `multipart/form-data`
- Fields:
  - `file`: one or multiple file binaries
  - `meta`: JSON string with:
    - `dv`: `1`
    - `sender`: `{ dv: 1, fingerprint: string }`

>     - `authedItemId`: UUID of the current user; must equal the authenticated user id

Reviewer: `userId` ? or `user: { id }`

Reviewer: We have some GraphQL-style objects for foreign keys if all out API

>     - `appId`: one of keys from `clients`

Reviewer: What about `organization`?

>     - `modelNames`: non-empty array of Models to which this file should be connected

Reviewer: Is it optional? If so, you need to remove it from the minimal example

Reviewer: It looks like extra security checks. May be move it to optional

Author: That's important part of a new API. U should strictly define where u want to connect ur file. Without that u just be able to upload file into the storage and don't use it anymore and anywhere

Example (curl):

```bash

> curl -X POST "$SERVER/api/files/upload" \

Reviewer: What about `objectId` + `schemaName`?

  -H "Cookie: $COOKIE" \
  -F "file=@/path/to/dino.png" \
  -F 'meta={"dv":1,"sender":{"dv":1,"fingerprint":"test-runner"},"authedItemId":"<USER_ID>","appId":"app-frontend","modelNames":["SomeModel"]}'
```

Successful response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "files": [
      { "id": "<uuid>", "signature": "<jwt>" }
    ]
  }
}
```

- Multiple `file` parts are supported; response returns matching number of items.
- `signature` is an HS256 JWT (expires in 5 minutes) signed with `clients[appId].secret`. Payload contains file meta, including `recordId`, original filename, mimetype, encoding, and `meta` with app/user info.

### FileRecord model and signature payload

The signed payload corresponds to the public meta of `FileRecord`:

```json
{
  "id": "<storage-id>",
  "recordId": "<FileRecord.id>",
  "path": "<string|null>",
  "filename": "<generated-name>",
  "originalFilename": "<original name>",
  "mimetype": "<mime>",
  "encoding": "<encoding>",
  "meta": {
    "dv": 1,
    "sender": { "dv": 1, "fingerprint": "<string>" },
    "authedItemId": "<uuid>",

>     "appId": "<string>",

Reviewer: I'm expecting something like: `user: { id: "<uuid>" }`, `app: { id: "<uuid>" }` and it's unclear which app ID should I use B2BApp OIDCApp B2CApp ... looks like we need to use some new word for that

    "modelNames": ["<string>", "..."],
    "sourceAppId": "<string|null>"
  },
  "iat": <number>,
  "exp": <number>
}
```

### Connect a file to a GraphQL model

After you receive a file `signature` from the upload/share endpoint, pass it into a mutation for a model that has a file field. The field expects an input of type `FileMeta` with a `signature` property.

- Requirements:
  - The current user must be the owner indicated by `authedItemId`.
  - The model’s list key must be present in `meta.modelNames`.
  - Use the signature before it expires.

Create example:

```graphql

> mutation CreateSomeModel($data: SomeModelCreateInput!) {

Reviewer: need to provide a `data` example

- Requirements:
  - The current user must be the owner indicated by `authedItemId`.
  - The model’s list key must be present in `meta.modelNames`.
  - Use the signature before it expires.

Create example:

```graphql
mutation CreateSomeModel($data: SomeModelCreateInput!) {
  obj: createSomeModel(data: $data) {
    file { filename mimetype publicUrl path }
  }
}

// Data example:
data: {
  ...otherModelFields,
  file: { signature: 'signed-string-received-from-file-server' }
}

```

On read, the field resolves to:

```graphql
{
  file {
    id
    path
    filename
    originalFilename
    mimetype
    encoding
    publicUrl
    meta
  }
}
```

### Sharing a file

Creates a new file record that points to the original binary; useful to “reassign” an uploaded file to another app/user/model.

- Method: `POST`
- Content-Type: `application/json`
- Body:
  - `dv`: `1`
  - `sender`: `{ dv: 1, fingerprint: string }`
  - `id`: UUID of existing file record (must belong to the authenticated user)

>   - `authedItemId`: UUID of the target user (new owner)

Reviewer: What about organization ID?

### Authentication

- Only authenticated, non-deleted users can call the endpoints. Auth is taken from the app session cookie (same as other Keystone-secured endpoints).
- Unauthorized or deleted users receive `UNAUTHENTICATED/AUTHORIZATION_REQUIRED`.

### Configuration

Set `FILE_UPLOAD_CONFIG` env var to a JSON string:

Clients is a object of fileClientId as a key and value is an object with payload of secret to encrypt and decrypt files 
```json
{
  "clients": {
    "some-app-internal-id": { "secret": "<HS256-signing-secret>" }
  },
  "quota": {
    "user": 100,
    "ip": 100
  }
}
```

Upload quota is 100 files per hour for user and ip by default.

### Uploading files

- Method: `POST`
- Content-Type: `multipart/form-data`
- Fields:
  - `file`: one or multiple file binaries
  - `meta`: JSON string with:
    - `dv`: `1`
    - `sender`: `{ dv: 1, fingerprint: string }`
    - `user`: `{ id: "<USER_ID>" }` Object with id key, that should contain UUID of the current user; must equal the authenticated user id
    - `fileClientId`: one of keys from `clients`
    - `modelNames`: non-empty array of Models to which this file should be connected

>     - `organization`: `{id: "<ORGANIZATION_ID"}` Optional - object with id key, that should contain id of user organization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `organization`: `{id: "<ORGANIZATION_ID"}` Optional - object with id key, that should contain id of organization to which the file belongs
```
?

Author: What the real question?)

    mimetype
    encoding
    publicUrl
    meta
  }
}
```

### Sharing a file

Creates a new file record that points to the original binary; useful to “reassign” an uploaded file to another app/user/model.

- Method: `POST`
- Content-Type: `application/json`
- Body:
  - `dv`: `1`
  - `sender`: `{ dv: 1, fingerprint: string }`
  - `id`: UUID of existing file record (must belong to the authenticated user)
  - `user`: `{ id: "uuid" }` UUID of the target user (new owner)
  - `fileClientId`: target app id (must exist in `clients`)
  - `modelNames` (optional): array of strings

Example:

```bash
curl -X POST "$SERVER/api/files/share" \
  -H "Cookie: $COOKIE" -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "dv":1,
    "sender":{"dv":1,"fingerprint":"test-runner"},
    "id":"<EXISTING_FILE_ID>",
    "user":{"id": "<TARGET_USER_ID>"},
    "fileClientId":"another-app",
    "modelNames":["AnotherModel"]
  }'
```

Successful response:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "file": { "id": "<uuid>", "signature": "<jwt>" }
  }
}
```

- The returned `signature` is signed with the target `fileClientId` secret and includes `meta.sourcefileClientId` (original app) and `recordId` of the new file record.

> ### Attaching a file to a model

Reviewer 2: It's like a "Connect a file to a GraphQL model" above but rest way?
Maybe it's worth combining them in one part?
